We've talked a little bit before about public and private subnets now when we have private subnets,
we might want to deploy something called a bastion host.
And this helps us to connect to the instances in our private subnets.
And in this lesson, we're going to go into a bit more detail on public versus private subnets and how
we might use bastion hosts.
So we have a region and within that region, we've created a VPC.
We then have an availability zone and we have a public subnet.
Now the public subnet has a round table associated with it, and that round table will have a route
to the internet.
So let's just have a look at the root table here.
The first address is the cyber block.
So the overall address block for the VPC.
So what that means is any address block in the VPC is going to be within this range of addresses.
Now, if you're sending a network communication and it's within this address block, what's going to
happen is it's going to be routed locally.
So that means it's going to use the VPC router, which routes within your VPC that will go over Seider
address blocks and how to create them later on in the course.
The second entry in the round table essentially says any other address, so the 0.0.0.0 slash zero means
anything else.
So essentially anything that's not within this range will match this rule.
And this rule says go to an internet gateway.
So the internet gateways the way to the outside world.
And it basically means that if you're not sending a network communication within the or address block
for the VPC, then it should be rooted out to the internet.
Now next, we have our private subnet, a private subnet, has a separate root table, and the key difference
here is it doesn't have a route to the internet.
You cannot attach an internet gateway to a private subnet.
Now what is the actual difference?
It's really just configuration with the public subnet.
We've configured the public subnet to assign public IP addresses to the instances.
So every instance you launch by default is going to have a public IP address.
Now, in a private subnet, we simply don't configure that option, and it's actually the default when
you create a subnet.
So that means we're not going to have public IP addresses assigned to the instances in the private subnet.
And therefore, without having a public address, they are unable to use an internet gateway.
So even if you had an internet gateway specified in the round table, it wouldn't work.
So the two key attributes here to make this a private subnet are that we're not assigning public IP
addresses to our instances.
And we have a round table associated that doesn't have an internet gateway attached to it.
So therefore our instance are a private.
They cannot communicate to the outside world and the outside world cannot communicate to the private
subnet.
But we've still got the entry routing within the VPC, which means communication between public and
private subnets can still occur.
So let's say we launch a couple of instances one in our public subnet and one in our private subnet.
Now, of course, these subnets could be in different availability zones.
That doesn't matter.
That doesn't change this configuration.
The availability zone isn't important here.
What's important is we have one instance in the public subnet and one in a private subnet, and we want
to be able to connect to all instance in our private subnet.
We have an internet gateway and we want to be able to connect from a computer in the outside world to
our instance in our private subnet.
Now how are we going to do that?
Well, actually, we can't, because remember, there's no way that the private subnet instances can
communicate with an internet gateway.
They don't have a route and they don't have a public IP address.
So what we're going to do here is we're going to connect to our instance in our public subnet.
The instance does have a public IP address, and it's in a subnet that has a round table associated
with it, with a route to an internet gateway, which allows bidirectional communication to and from
the incident.
So what we can do now, now that we've connected to this issue to instance using the secure shell,
for example, or IDP, if it's a Windows instance, we can then jump across to our private subnet instance
using private IP addresses.
So this instance and this instance both have a private IP within this range, which means there's already
a rule or an entry in the root table that allows them to communicate using the local target, which
is the VPC router, which you don't see depicted here.
But it exists.
So this is where we're using this instance in the public subnet as something that we call a bastion
host or a jump host, and that simply means that we're connecting to this instance.
And then from here, we're connecting to our instance in a private subnet.
So now, you know a lot more about private and public subnets and also how to use bastion hosts.
Now what we'll do in the next lesson is we're going to do a hands on and we're actually going to configure
an instance in a public subnet as a bastion host and connect to an instance in a private subnet.